What happens if you have a collection of
data that you wanna kinda keep together on
a in a barrel of data or
a package of data?
Well, JavaScript lets you
do that with objects.
So this curly brace here denotes that
I'm declaring a new object, right?
So it's one object.
So I have this person object that
contains all of this sub-information.
So I have Brian.
I have a person object who has a name,
a city, a state, a favorite food.
WantsTacosRightNow, it's
just a generally true thing.
That was wantsTacos and numbers of
tacos wanted, I have no control,
so I would like 100 of them right now.
So if I console.log(person), I get
the whole object, right, all of this.
If I console.log(person.name),
this is what the name again remember,
like console.log is a function on console.
Person.name is just a property,
it's a variable built into Brian.
So those are two words that
I'll use synonymously as well,
a property is just a variable
built into an object, right?
So this person object has a name property,
is city property,
a state property, so on and so forth.
This could also be called a key, right?
Has a name key, a city key and
then, this is a key value pair.
So you would call Brian Holt here,
this part of it would be called the value,
right?
Name being the key,
Brian Holt being the value.
One thing to note about keys is they're
unique, right, so I can't have two names.
What will actually end up happening
here is this one overwrites this one.
Not that you would ever want to do this,
right, there's no reason that
you would want to declare it twice but
you can it just overwrites it, but
you can have as many of the same values,
right, the value is not unique, right?
So I have name and other name here and
they're both Brian Holt,
totally fine, right?
So the name is not necessarily unique,
a sort of the value,
the value is not unique.
Okay, and then this is the way that
you access things on the object,
this is a person.name and you can see
down here it gives you back Brian Holt or
if I said person.favoriteFood,
I'll get the toggle emoji back, right?
So I did line 11 here just to show
you that technically you can do this,
where you use the square
brackets with the quotes here.
This and
this do exactly the same thing, right?
I just wanna show it to you so
that you see them, they're both the same,
it's fine.
This is,
I would argue much easier to read,
so I'm gonna implore you to use
the way I do it on line 10.
But if you see like on stack overflow or
something, then it's fine, it still works.
The reason why this can actually
be useful is let's say,
I have a variable out here if const
propertyName equal to name and
I console.log propertyName here
between the square brackets.
What do you expect this to log now?
What's stored in name, right?
Or let's maybe change
this to be like city.
That's why you sometimes need to use
that square brackets because obviously I
can't just say .propertyName here.
That doesn't make any sense because
there's nothing on here called
property name.
So if I wanna use the variable name as
the accessor, you have to do it this way.
Makes sense?
It's kind of weird.
>> Why does the property name become
accessible through the brackets of person.
Does it become a part of
the object when you declare it?
>> Well, it's looking for
some sort of, sorry to use
the technical term literal, right?
So it's looking for something that
it can literally uses that, so
if I wanted to have the city here,
I'd have to put sorry, city.
I have to put this in quotes
because it's looking for
something that I can use as the key,
right?
So I can either take this,
right, which is this or
I can replace it with this and get that.
But I can't put city here, right?
This doesn't work because there's
nothing called city, right?
It's looking for a variable called
city and no city variable exists.
>> It turns into just
quotes with nothing in it.
All right, undefined.
>> Yep.
I don't know why this is
not happy about that.
There is a city defined.
Okay, sometimes it just
gets in a bad state.
Yeah, no Mark's exactly right.
So if you put city here and
there's no such thing as a city
variable This is just undefined, right?
So yeah, it tells you right
there city is not defined.
Let's just comment this out, so
there's all there we can see is that.
So if you wanted to do that, you would
have to put either quotes around this or
you'd have to have some variable
up here like property name.
That makes sense, kind of?
>> It just seems to me that property name
is declared outside the scope of person.
>> Property name here exists in the same
scope that we're using it as the accessor
right here.
So let's get rid of these as well.
I'm using property names here.
This is in scope, right?
It's going to replace this
literally right here with city.
That's what the engine's
doing underneath the hood.
And then city is going to be used
to go grab city out of here, right?
So there's kinda like a chain
of actions here, that help?
>> Yeah.
>> Cool.
For the most part, don't need to care.
You're gonna wanna do person.city,
this would only be for
some weird case where you wanted to access
different variables on the object based
on the situation But
for now this is enough.
>> So maybe because propertyName is
tied to city which is in the object,
we can console log person propertyName,
we'll get something.
But if we say something like cons
propertyName equals a random,
say happy, right?
But because there is no direct
relationship with hobby or
in the object, they won't be anything.
>> Yeah.
>> Undefined.
You got it.
Exactly, good job.
Everyone's kinda kind of like
coming up from their own angle and
I'm super here for it, right?
Like I had to approach
a lot of these things and
I'm sharing with you my problems with
I had when I was learning these, but
my problems are definitely your
problems and vice versa, right?
So yeah,
I appreciate you working through it.
Okay, so let's say we have some
music recommendation engine,
I'm pretty sure this is how Spotify works,
it's exactly like this.
That's a joke,
that definitely doesn't work like this.
So I have to suggest music function,
right,
it takes in person or
some sort of person object, right?
And so I call suggest music with person1,
right?
So person1 here is Angie and
Angie is age 25 to 35.
So what's the first thing that's
gonna be logged out for Angie.
So her age range is 25 to 35 here,
right, so personnel age range,
so it's gonna say, we think you will
like Daft Punk because if you're
in the demographic by law you must
like Daft Punk or make the rules.
Okay, second one is Francesca.
Franchesca is age 65 to 75, and
looks like she's in this demographic,
right?
So person.ageRange = 65 to 75.
Probably gonna like Johnny Cash.
I like Johnny Cash too, you probably
could have put that in mind, that's fine.
But Francesca definitely, according to
her Spotify algorithm likes Johnny Cash.
And we didn't do a one
with anyone else but
pretty sure everyone likes David Bowie,
right, so that's good fallback.
But this is like one way
you can use objects, right?
You can get this like whole kind of
barrel of information about someone,
one of your users and
then you can pass it through and
read properties off of them and
do different things based on that.
Good, makes sense?
>> I guess I do have a question.
>> Yeah, please do?
>> So like just trying to
understand like the context
of this cuz some people may
do this in a database or
you could use JavaScript.
Databases are very capable
of doing things like select,
star where age range equals 65 through 75,
right?
And they will only give you back records
that necessarily have those things,
totally valid use case.
And that would be like done on like
on a back end with a server and
the server would return that to you,
right?
And this we're all doing in the browser,
So we're not reaching out
to any sort of database or
doing all this processing in the browser.
So it's gonna be contextual.
So however you're solving a problem,
Spotify doesn't do this in your browser,
they do it on a server somewhere.
They probably do it in some sort of
like AI machine learning kind of cluster
sort of idea, right?
And then they probably save
that to a database and
then you read it from the database, right?
But imagine a world where you read
an app that has no back end server,
it just takes in a person's interests and
then based on that,
returns them information, this would all
have to be done in JavaScript in your
browser and
you will be doing things like this.
So it just depends on how and
where you're doing that.
In other words,
there's many right ways to do this.
Cool, good question.
So objects, so I have a dog object here.
Can even have their own functions.
So an example here is I have dog and
I gave the name dog,
I'm very creative, we'll put Luna there.
Luna is my dog.
And I gave Luna a function of
speak where she says woof woof.
So I can say dog.speak.
We see our telltale parentheses there,
right?
So this is going to invoke,
invoke is another word for call or use.
It's going to invoke the speak function or
the speak method.
You could speaker method here as well.
The speak function, right,
this is the shorthand from doing it,
you can also do speak colon
function like that and
that totally works as well.
Up to you, I like this one,
it's nice and short
Objects can have nested
objects inside of them.
So I can have me here and I have a name
object inside of the me object but
the first and last and
a location with a city, state and country.
And then here I can say me.name.first,
right, which I'll get Brian.
Me.location.state, I get Washington.
I think that makes sense, right?
So to drive home another point here,
what do you think console is then?
Console's just an object that
the browser provides for you, right?
It's an object full of functions.
I mean, you can console.log(console),
and you're just gonna get,
it's an object with a bunch
of functions on it.
These are all the functions
that you can call and
we've been using console.log but
there's a console.error.
There's a console.info.
Now mostly's, aren't being captured here,
so you're not gonna see them.
But if I do hear,
you can actually see it here.
So if I say console, let's just trash
this so you can see everything.
If I say console.info,
notice there's like this little i there.
It's large differently so you can kind of
look at your logs in different lengths.
If I say console.error,
no there was an error.
You can see that there's red here,
it actually gives me like a trace
of where that happened, right?
It tries to be helpful.
It's like, you had a problem here.
You told me that you had an error.
I'm gonna try and
make this helpful for you.
And then I can say console.log.
This is a log, right?
Now I can say, now only show me infos.
Also I can say, rather don't show
me errors and don't show me infos.
And don't show me the bugs, you can go
in there and kind of slice and dice and
show me some things.
Don't show me other things.
It's kind of fun, right?
So, that's all console is,
it's just an object full of functions,
same with math, right?
We saw math.floor, math.ceiling,
math is just an object full
of math methods for you.
And again, if I just say math and
we can look at it here.
The browser actually let me explore it.
Here's all of the functions
that are on maths for you.
Absolute value,
like you can get into like sine and
cosine and A10, 8# and
things like that are tench, right?
Man it's been a long time since I've
had that's like hyperbolic tan,
it's been a long time since I've had a
geometry class, I don't actually remember.
But there's logs.
There's like math.pi, right?
If you like to know what pi is, they'd
have this value of pi that you can use.
Notice it's an all in caps.
That's just like a way of saying like this
is a constant number that doesn't change.
It's called screening case.
Math tardy which I think is,
no it's math.E2.718, right?
That's like E to the X, kind of thing for
like logarithms, things of that nature.
Yeah, they're just objects, everything
in JavaScript is just functions and
objects and other things like that.